Update migration guide. (#22)
devfile/docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/migration_guide.adoc

> = Migrating from devfile v1 to devfile v2

Reviewer: Unless there's a specific reason not to, I believe the use of `v1` vs `v1.0` and `v2` vs `v2.0` should be unified.

:description: A guide to migrate a v1 Devfile to v2

This guide explains how to migrate an existing v1.0 devfile to v2.0.

== Schema version

> Attribute `apiVersion` has been renamed `schemaVersion`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attribute `apiVersion` has been renamed to `schemaVersion`:
```

----
|====

Details can be found in the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/7[corresponding issue].

== Migrating projects

> A project specified in a v1.0 devfile works as it is in a devfile v2.0. The only major change is the addition of a new kind of project: `starterProjects`. Those are supposed to be used in interactive mode only (user must pick one) and the Git repo cannot be cloned but only source code get copied (kind of what `git archive --remote=<repository URL> | tar -t` would do).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A project specified in a v1.0 devfile works as is in a devfile v2.0. The only major change is the addition of a new kind of project: `starterProjects`. Those are supposed to be used in interactive mode only (user must pick one) and the Git repository cannot be cloned. Instead, only source code is to be copied (for example, `git archive --remote=_<repository URL>_ | tar -t`).
```

Details can be found in the https://github.com/che-incubator/devworkspace-api/issues/7[corresponding issue].

== Migrating projects

A project specified in a v1.0 devfile works as it is in a devfile v2.0. The only major change is the addition of a new kind of project: `starterProjects`. Those are supposed to be used in interactive mode only (user must pick one) and the Git repo cannot be cloned but only source code get copied (kind of what `git archive --remote=<repository URL> | tar -t` would do).

> === `starterProjects` and projects description

Author: Good catch! Added backticks around `project.`

    description: "Use this app to get a simple "hello world" nodejs application"
----

Details can be found in the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/42[corresponding issue].

== Migrating components

> There are major changes in the `components` section of the devfile. A component specified in a v1.0 devfile will not work as it is in a devfile v2.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

There are major changes in the `components` section of the devfile. A component specified in a v1.0 devfile does not work as is in a devfile v2.0.
```

=== Component is a polymorphic type

> For a better syntax validation component now is defined as a polymorphic type and can be implemented as `container`, `kubernetes`, `openshift`, `plugin` or `volume`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For better syntax validation, a component now is defined as a polymorphic type and can be implemented as `container`, `kubernetes`, `openshift`, `plugin`, or `volume`.
```

Details can be found in the https://github.com/che-incubator/devworkspace-api/issues/42[corresponding issue].

== Migrating components

> A component specified in a v1.0 devfile will not work as it is in a devfile v2.0.

Author: I've readded the sentence. Probably removed it by accident the first time.

       reference: https://.../mongo.yaml
----

> Details can be found in the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/4[corresponding issue].

Reviewer: All of the _"Details can be found in the >corresponding issue<."_ sentences would look better with:

* No passive tense
* Title of the linked issue

E.g.: _"For more details, see >Polymorphic component type UX in a devfile<."_

=== Shared volumes across components

Details can be found in the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/19[corresponding issue].

=== Out of main pod components

Details can be found in the  https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/48[corresponding issue].

> === Replace alias with Name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Replace alias with name
```

Details can be found in the  https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/9[corresponding issue].

=== Renaming `dockerimage` component type

Details can be found in the  https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/8[corresponding issue].

=== Specifying sources path for containers

Details can be found in the  https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/17[corresponding issue].

=== Specifying volume size for components

Details can be found in the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/14[corresponding issue].

=== Containers endpoints (routes/ingresses)

Details can be found in the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/33[corresponding issue].

> == Migrating plugins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Migrating plug-ins
```

> There ARE major changes about the definition of plugins in a devfile. Plugins are now specified using a devfile. A plugin specified in a v1.0 meta.yaml will NOT work as it is in a devfile v2.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plug-ins are specified using a devfile. A plug-in specified in a v1.0 `meta.yaml` does not work as is in a devfile v2.0.
```
Do not use CAPS in docs.

> Details can be found in the https://github.com/che-incubator/devworkspace-api/issues/31[corresponding issue].

Reviewer 2: Change URL prefix, see above.

== Migrating commands

There ARE major changes in the `commands` section of the devfile. A command specified in a v1.0 devfile will NOT work as it is in a devfile v2.0.

=== Command Groups: build, run, test, debug

Details can be found in the https://github.com/che-incubator/devworkspace-api/issues/27[corresponding issue].

=== Applying command

Details can be found in the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/56[corresponding issue].

=== Environment variables for a specific command

> Details can be found in the https://github.com/che-incubator/devworkspace-api/issues/21[corresponding issue].

Reviewer 2: Change URL prefix, see above.

=== Renaming `workdir` into `workingDir`

> Details can be found in the https://github.com/che-incubator/devworkspace-api/issues/22[corresponding issue].

Reviewer 2: Change URL prefix, see above.

=== `Id` and `label` for composite commands

> Details can be found in the https://github.com/che-incubator/devworkspace-api/issues/18[corresponding issue].

Reviewer 2: Change URL prefix, see above.

    - "openFile"
----

Details are in the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/32[corresponding issue].

== New metadata

> In v2 of the devfile we have added some new metadata like `version` (this is the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/10[corresponding issue]) and some mandatory metadata for plugins (this is the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/31[corresponding issue]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Version 2 of the devfile adds new metadata, including `version` (see link:https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/10[The devfile schema/samples should have version and name]) and some mandatory metadata for plug-ins (see link:https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/31[Better plugin mechanism]).
```

`exec` now must have a component explicitly defined.

[cols="1a,1a"]
|====
| 
[source,yaml]
----
v1.0
---
  - name: helloWorld
      exec:
        env:
          - name: "USER"
            value: "John Doe"
        commandLine: 'echo "Hello ${USER}"'
        component: build-tools
----
|
[source,yaml]
----
v2.0
---
  - id: helloWorld
    exec:
      component: "mycomponent"
      env:
        - name: "USER"
          value: "John Doe"
      commandLine: 'echo "Hello ${USER}"'
      component: build-tools
----
|====
Details are in the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/152[corresponding issue]

== Support of multiple remotes for a Git project
Devfile v2 supports multiple remotes for a Git project.

.Example of a project with multiple remotes defined
[source,yaml]
----
projects:
  - name: project   
    git:
      remotes:
        origin: "https://github.com/amisevsk/web-nodejs-sample.git"
        upstream: "https://github.com/che-samples/web-nodejs-sample.git"
        gh-collaborator: "https://github.com/gh-collaborator/web-nodejs-sample.git"  
      checkoutFrom: <1> 
        revision: foo <2> 
        remote: upstream <3> 
----

> <1> Mandatory if there is more than one remote

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Mandatory if there is more than one remote.
```

> <2> The revision that should be used checked out. May be a branch name, tag or commit id. Default branch should be checked out if missing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<2> The revision that should be used checked out. May be a branch name, tag, or commit id. Default branch should be checked out if missing.
```

> <3> The remote name should be used as init. Required if there are more than one remote configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<3> The remote name that should be used as init. Required if there are more than one remote configured.
```

More details are in the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/104[corresponding issue].

== `name` and `id` moved to a top-level
[cols="1a,1a"]
|====
| 
[source,yaml]
----
v1.0
---
components:
  - container:
      name: tools
----
|
[source,yaml]
----
v2.0
---
components:
  - name: tools
    container:
----
|====

More details are in the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/102[corresponding issue].

== `mountSources` are true by default

> `mountSources` field is defined as `true` for all non-plugin components and components that do not set dedicatedPod to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The `mountSources` field is defined as `true` for all non-plug-in components and components that do not set `dedicatedPod` to `true`.
```

More details are in the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/75[corresponding issue].

== `hotReloadCapable` added to `exec` commands

> `hotReloadCapable` defines whether the command is capable to reload itself when source code changes. If set to `true` the command will not be restarted and it is expected to handle file changes on its own. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The `hotReloadCapable` fields defines whether the command is capable of reloading itself when source code changes. If set to `true`, the command is not restarted, and it is expected to handle file changes on its own. 
```

In v2 of the devfile we have added some new metadata like `version` (this is the https://github.com/che-incubator/devworkspace-api/issues/10[corresponding issue]) and some mandatory metadata for plugins (this is the https://github.com/devfile/api/issues/31[corresponding issue]).

== The `exec` command requires a defined component

`exec` now must have a component explicitly defined.

[cols="1a,1a"]
|====
| 
[source,yaml]
----
v1.0
---
  - id: helloWorld
      exec:
        env:
          - name: "USER"
            value: "John Doe"
        commandLine: 'echo "Hello ${USER}"'
        component: build-tools
----
|
[source,yaml]
----
v2.0
---

>   - id: helloWorld

Reviewer 2: This should be `name` instead of `id`
